Q1A
IOT and its characteristics -
IOT is dynamic global network infrastructure with self-
configuring capabilities that follow standard and inter
communicable protocol where physical and virtual "Things"
have identities, physical attributes, virtual identities
and use intelligent interfaces and are integrated to
information network and communicate with data associated
with user and environment.
Characteristics of IoT are① Dynamic & Self Adaptive: IOT devices have capability
to dynamically adapt to changing contexts or
environment and also take actions based on the
environment
2 Self Configuring: IoT devices have self-configuring
capability by allowing large number of devices to
connect to network and perform function based on it.
③ Intercommunicable Protocol: IoT devices follow standard.
intercommunicable protocol which allows devices to
Communicate with other devices based on protocol
④ Unique Identity: Each IoT devices have a unique
identity and unique identifier like URI
Integration into Information Network: IoT devices are
Seamlessly integrated into information network which
allows devices to exchange data between each other.
Q1D
Functional Blacks of IOT -
APPLICATION
Manage-
SERVICE
Security
ment
COMMUNICATION
DEVICES
① Application - It provides interface to JOT systems and
provides control over system which user uses to
view status and analysis the system
③ Management - Management provides functions to
manage the operations of the system.③ Service - It provides services like monitoring,
analyzing, recovering system and publishing.
④ Communication - It is used to establish communication
between cloud server and client
⑤ Security - It provides security mechanisms like
authentication, data security, encryption etc to prevent
theft or intrusion into the IOT System
6 Devices - Devices provide Sensing and monitoring
controls to extract information or data from outer
environments.
Q2B
IT and OT Responsibilities in IOT
7 Collaboration
& Process
⑥ Application
Suery
Data at Noreal-
⑤ Data
based rest time.
Abstraction
IT
4 Data
OT
Accumulation
(3)
③ Edge
Event
Data in Realtime
Computing
based motion
2 Connectivity.
① Physical Device Sensors Actuator,
& Controllers DevicesOT Responsibilites -
From layer I to layer 4 are OT responsibilities.
• Layer 1 - Physical Device & Controller ÷ These are things in
IoT and OT is responsible to configuring these.
devices into the network.
• Layer 2- Connectivity: Connectivity deals with establishing
network topologies, OT here figures out which
topology would be suited according to the condition /
environment.
· Layer 3- Edge Computing: It deals with analysis of
network, OT here figures out how the data routing
can be done over faster networks
• Layer 4 - Data Accumulation: Simply means storage of
data, OT figures out how data can be stored and
collected
• The data in OT layers in always in motion and devices
in these layers have capability to generate real time
data at their own data rates.
IT Responsibilites-
From layer 4 to layer 7 are IT responsibilities
· Layer 4- Data Accumulation: Storage management,
IT here responsibile to relate data according to query
· Layer 5- Data Abstraction: IT is responsible to
deriving meaning information from collected data
according to condition.
• Layer 6 - Application: Reporting and Analysis, IT
responsible to analyse the working IoT system
and generate report based on it
• Layer 7- Collaboration & Process: IT allows various users
to connect to IoT system and work with it.
• The data in IT layer is stable and not in real-time
.: Both IT and OT are responsible to seamlessly carry out
working of IoT Systems.Q2D
Security as driver in IoT -
• Cybercrimes and theft have become continously increasing
in nowadays, so Security is very important task to
protect the system.
· The acquired data and information need to be secured
and this will be done by IT department.
• Security mechanisms need to implemented like authentication,
encryption and intrusion detection with understanding of
standard protocols and also take actions on the critical
infrastructure
able
• For optimum Security System must be available identify and
authenticate entities in service like gateways, roaming
network and devices.
• Security ensures that IOT Systems follows all security
measures and protocols so that they cannot be damaged.
Q3A
RFID-
Database
RELD
System
Reader Antenna
data
Tag
Power
• Radio Frequency Identification Uses electromagnetic wireless.
communication based on electromagnetic coupling of radio
Frequency portion of electromagnetic induction / Spectrum -
• RFID consist of 2 Components -
- Reader
- Jag
• Tag is attached to the objects which uniquely identifies
the object when it is powered on using reader
antenna• Antenna / Reader is responsible to read the tag
When brought closor to electromagnetic field, it reads
the tag and sends data to the tag and uniquely identifier.
it.
• RFID operates at 3 band levels-
- 12-5 KHz to 13.5 KHz Low Frequency Band
- 13.56 MHz High Frequency Band
- 860 to 920 Ultra High Frequency Band
• The Low Frequency was deployed first in the market
where products can operate at low frequency level
- Next high frequeny was deployed and then ultra
high frequency was deployed.
• Applications
- Hom. Smart Card
- Fas
Fastag
- Example - Fastag
It is a RFID device installed at highway toll plaze
where when a car passes to the toll the reader
identifies the tag attached on the car and then.
if it uniquely identifies the tag then transcripts is
done 1-e payment of toll is done.
Smart Attendance
In this student id card contains RFID tag, when
student scans id card on scanner attached to the
door the reader on the scanner uniquely identifies
the student tag id and mark's attendance on the
database
moodle ID
Q
www wwww
RFID tag
Id Card
F
Reads
Scanner
Reader antema
cloud
Databare
dataQ3C
Bluetooth BLE
• Bluetooth Low Level Energy operates communication at
low level devices.
- Jet The BLE RF offers manufactures significant amount
of flexibility to design devices that use BLE or
design devices that satisfy the required condition.
• BIE Supports multiple topologies like peer-to-peer,
mesh tapology.
BLE ensures that standard Bluetooth protocols and
requirements are followed by BLE devices.
• Example-
Health Monitoring using Smart watch. were
we can connect our mobile and smart watch with BLE and
interface of health monitoring can be visible on the
mobile interface. BLE allows Seamless connectivity with
Smart phones.
Home automation